Welcome to MusiMania! This is a game focused on teaching you
how to read music and play the piano! These instructions will
guide you through reading notes on the staff, identifying
notes on the piano keyboard, and then playing those notes
using your computer keyboard! Piano is a fun instrument to play,
and learning it is also a great way to become integrated
in the world of classical music and get to know other instruments as
well!

Precursory Information:
Let's start off with clefs. In the game, you will see both the Bass Clef
and the Treble Clef on the music staff. The note names are listed on
the images below. For this game you only need to be able to identify the notes
from E on the bass cleff to G on the treble clef. When you play notes on the Bass
Clef you will play them with your left hand, and when you play notes on the Treble Clef you will 
play them with your right hand. Look at these images of the clefs and labeled note names,
and try to memorize which notes are at which locations on the clefs.
This will make gameplay easier for you, and remember you can always
check out these instructions during gameplay as well. This game will 
teach you to read and play notes on the piano, so there are a lot of 
different skills being used. You have to read the correct notes, 
know where they're located on the piano keyboard, and then play them!


How to Play:

                               Each game is comprised of an infinite number of levels, and each level
contains five stages. The level you are on is indicated by the LV count
and your stage number is indicated by the Stage count, both of these
are located at the right of your panel during the game. Each stage
provides a new sequence of notes for you to play. The first level
includes notes only in treble clef, the second has only bass clef, and
from level three and up the notes can be from either clef. You are given
60 seconds to complete each stage in levels 1,2, and 3. From Level 4 and
onwards, you are given less time per level. The time you have left to
complete a stage is indicated by the timer at the right of your game panel.
When you complete a stage, you gain 10 points. You gain 20 points for
every level you complete. The blue note is indicating which note you have
to play next. You must play the blue note in order to move on to the
next note in the sequence.

If you do not play all of the notes in the sequence before time is up.
You lose the stage. When you lose a stage for the first time in one game,
you are brought to a quiz based around classical music, musicians, and musical instruments.
There are 5 questions in the quiz, and if you get 3 or more right, you will
be able to resume your game! If you resume your game, you will not receive
the points for the stage you lost, but you will be automatically bumped
up to the next stage (so you've essentially skipped the stage you lost).

The second time you are unable to play your sequence in time, your game is over!

When you lose a stage, the game will tell you what note you were stuck
on and how to play it, because learning from your mistakes is what helps
you become a better musician!

If you get less than 3 questions right on your quiz, you lose your game
and your score when you lost your stage will be your final score.

If your score is higher than the fifth place score on the leaderboard, your name could make it on the rankings,
so don't give up!


Game Controls:

When you press a start button, a new game will begin. Any time you press
a quit button, your game will be over and you will not receive a score.
You can not save your progress in one game, so please be mindful of that
if you decide to quit your game. Use your computer keyboard in order to play
the notes on your game! There is a piano keyboard at the bottom of the screen
during the game that you can use as reference. Each key on your computer keyboard
corresponds to a key on the piano, so press the key that corresponds to the note you want to
play! If you press the "More" menu at the bottom right of the game you can either
select "Help" or "Quit." The quit menu option will allow you to quit your
game and return to the pink start screen. If you select the "Help" option
you'll be able to read these instructions again! So make sure to use
the "Help" option whenever you need a reminder on how to read notes
or control the game! The stage timer pauses each time you get help, and
it only resumes when you return to your game (using the "Return to Game"
button). This means that you don't lose any valuable time!


Quiz Controls:
When you play a quiz, you can only hit submit once you've selected an
answer choice. Once you submit your answer you can not change it, and the
quiz will tell you whether or not you got the question correct. Press the
"Next" button in order to move on to the next question.

Now that you've read through the instructions, you're all set to play!
Good luck! You'll do great! Now let's play some music!
